---
title: brew
date: 2023-10-02
tags:

---

`brew` is the command-line interface for **Homebrew**, which is a free and open-source software package management system designed for macOS (and later extended to Linux under the name "Linuxbrew"). Here's a more detailed breakdown:

### **What is Homebrew?**

Homebrew is often referred to as the "missing package manager for macOS". Before Homebrew, macOS did not have a standard package manager like `apt` for Ubuntu or `yum` for CentOS. Homebrew fills that gap by providing an easy way to install, update, and manage software packages on macOS (and Linux).

### **Key Features and Concepts of Homebrew**:

- **Formulae**: At the heart of Homebrew are formulae, which are Ruby scripts that define how a particular package should be installed. They reside in the main Homebrew repository on GitHub.

- **Casks**: While Homebrew initially focused on command-line tools, "Homebrew Cask" extends this to macOS applications and large binaries. Using casks, you can install applications like Google Chrome, VLC, etc.

- **Taps**: Homebrew's default repository contains a collection of formulae, but not all of them. "Tapping" an additional repository means you're adding more formulae/casks that aren't in the default set. This allows third-party repositories to provide their own formulae.

- **Cellar**: Once a package (formula) is installed, its files are stored in the "Cellar" and symlinked to appropriate directories. This makes managing and versioning easier.

- **Bottles**: These are pre-built binary packages, which means you don’t have to compile the software from source (which can be time-consuming). If available, Homebrew will use a bottle to install software, making the process faster.

### **Common Commands**:

- `brew install <package>`: Installs a package.

- `brew uninstall <package>`: Removes a package.

- `brew doctor`: Check system for potential problems

- `brew update`: Updates the Homebrew package database.

- `brew upgrade`: Upgrades all outdated packages.

- `brew list`: Lists all installed packages.

- `brew search <text>`: Searches for available packages.

- `brew info <package>`: Provides information about a package.

- `brew tap <repository>`: Adds a new third-party repository.

- `brew cask install <application>`: Installs an application via Homebrew Cask.

### Brew examples

```shell
# check if there's any other versions of awscli
brew list | grep awscli

# remove left over binary
rm -rf /opt/homebrew/bin/aws
```

### 

